the film opens with a panicked man
falling through a ceiling grate into an
old-fashioned study room
man finds a door with a puzzle on the
wall that requires him to slide four
numbers into position to open
when he moves one of the numbers on the
puzzle the wall opposite to the exit
begins to move towards man
crushing everything in its path the man
frantically searches for clues around
the room
and moves the numbers on the door into
position but the wall continues to move
he is trapped between the two walls and
his leg is punctured by a sharp stick
the film then cuts to three days earlier
in chicago illinois
here we meet a girl named zoe she is in
a college lecture hall and her professor
asks a question that she knows the
answer
but she is too shy to speak up after the
class
her professor tells her that she needs
to learn to speak up and challenges her
to do something that scares her over
thanksgiving break
she goes back to her dorm room and
refuses to join the dorm party
as her roommate leaves for thanksgiving
she finds a package for zoe outside
their room
inside is a note for her and a black
puzzle box
then we meet with another character
jason he is a hot shot stock trader
he gets a call from a happy client
offering him a vacation to fiji
and he later receives a note from the
client along with a black puzzle box
now we came across the boy whom we have
seen at the beginning of the movie
his name is ben and he is a stock boy at
a grocery store
who is denied to be promoted as cashier
because his boss says it would be bad
for the business
as the boss leaves he spots ben's flask
and tells ben to stop drinking and go
make some friends
ben seems devastated by this and his
boss apologizes
the next morning ben arrives at the work
and finds a note and a black puzzle box
on his workstation
zoe jason and ben each manages to open
their puzzle boxes
zoe figures it out on her own jason uses
a youtube tutorial
and ben stumbles across the solution by
accident after trying to smash the box
with a hammer
inside is a card inviting them to
minnow's escape room
where the first person to escape the
room will earn ten thousand dollars
ben stands outside the minnows building
smoking a cigarette
when a girl named amanda arrives she
enters the lobby and checks in with the
guard
who requests her to keep the cell phone
outside so pictures of the room aren't
posted online
as she walks to the elevator the guard
thanks her for her service and amanda
appear perturbed
another boy danny joins amanda in the
elevator
amanda and danny enter the waiting room
where jason
zoe and mike were already waiting ben
joins them and the group chats while
waiting for the game to start
danny reveals that he's been to over 90
escape rooms
ben gets tired of waiting for the game
to start and wants to go outside and
smoke
when he tries to open the door the
handle breaks off in his hand
and danny realizes that the game has
started already
where the handle broke off is now an
oven dial and the group begins searching
for clues
amanda sees that all the magazines in
the room were sent to a dr wooten u
mike flips through the books on the
shelf and finds a screwdriver
in a copy of fahrenheit 451
zoe turns the oven dial to 451 degrees
and heating panels around the room turn
on and begin heating the room
amanda gets anxious and asks the person
sitting behind a frosted glass window
for a clue
zoe realizes that the voice they keep
hearing from behind the window is like a
recording
jason picks up a snow globe with a
sailboat inside off a shelf
and looks disturbed before putting it
back ben takes a fire extinguisher off
the wall
which turns on more heating panels the
fire extinguisher is fake
but zoe pulls the pin out and finds a
key to open the frosted glass window
inside as a mannequin holding a phone
the phone rings and jason answers
the voice tells them to follow the rules
when jason hangs up the phone
more heating panels turn on as the room
gets hotter
amanda panics zoe gets her a glass of
water from the water cooler to calm her
down
zoe notices a sign on the wall that says
to use the coasters
she presses down one of the coasters on
the coffee table
and a painting on the wall moves to
reveal an air duct
zoe figures out that all six of the
coasters need to be pressed down to keep
the painting from blocking the air duct
zoe danny ben and mike press the
coasters down
while jason crawls into the duct he
finds a grate that leads into another
room
but needs the screwdriver from mike who
joins him in the duct to open the grate
and instead of him amanda hold the press
zoe tells amanda to go next while she
danny and ben hold the coasters down zoe
figures out that
they can fill the water glasses to the
top using the water cooler and they will
be heavy enough to hold the coasters
down
amanda panics in the duct and flashes
back to crawling out of a military base
in the desert
after a blast ben and danny tell zoe to
go and help amanda while they fill
glasses
zoe calms amanda down and they continue
through the duct
ben and danny are only able to fill five
glasses before the water cooler is empty
this is because amanda drank a glass
earlier ben pulls out his flask and
fills the sixth glass
danny and ben crawl through the duct as
the room bursts into flames behind them
and crawl up through the grate
just before the fire blasts through the
air duct
the group is now in a log cabin everyone
thinks the game is real
except for danny who whines that he's
stuck playing with five boring people
jason opens a lock on the front door
with a key but there's another lock that
requires seven letters to open
mike finds a quote on the wall that says
you'll go down in history
zoe starts naming u.s presidents last
names with seven letters
but none of them open the lock ben
notices nine antlers mounted on the wall
each with a letter below them he flashes
back to driving at night with his
friends
they're all drunk and loudly singing
rudolph the red-nosed reindeer
when ben crashes head on into another
car
ben realizes that the letters under the
antlers are the first letters of the
names of santa's reindeer
ben tells them to try rudolph and the
lock opens
the group exits the cabin which locks
behind them
they are now in a snowy clearing where
the ground is water that has frozen over
a thermometer reads 30 degrees and zoe
notices the temperature slowly dropping
it appears they are outside but danny
walks away from the cabin until he bumps
into a barrier and realizes that
the walls are high-tech screens designed
to make it appear
that they're outside they search for
clues
jason finds a locked door in the wall
and amanda finds a boat with a red
jacket in it
zoe sees a carving on the side of the
boat that says true north as a lie
jason seems disturbed by the jacket and
amanda says that they'll take turns
wearing it
mike finds a fishing pole in a tree and
ben stumbles across a fishing hole in
the ice after stepping in it
while the other five dropped the fishing
line into the hole to see how deep it
goes
zoe uses the compass to wander around
she notices the compass start to
malfunction near a taxidermied polar
bear
and reaches into the bear's mouth to
find a magnet
when she rejoins the group jason says
that it's his turn to wear the jacket
and takes it from her
ben walks away to smoke while mike
attaches the magnet to the fishing line
and drops it into the hole again
he pulls up a metal frame filled with a
frozen solid block of ice with a key in
the middle
the ice is too solid to break so dany
asks ben for his lighter to melt it
ben throws it part way to danny and when
dany walks over and picks it up
the ice beneath him breaks and he falls
into the water
the other five frantically search for
dany through the ice and amanda wants to
dive in after him
mike tells her that with the current
state she wouldn't make it back to the
surface
even if she could find danny danny
drowns under the ice
jason tells them they'll all die of
hypothermia if they don't work together
to melt the ice
as the temperature continues to drop he
flashes back to sitting on the hull of
an overturned boat in icy water
next to another boy who was wearing the
same red jacket they found in the room
they take turns wearing the jacket and
slowly managed to melt the ice by all
putting their hands on it
jason puts the key in the door but it
doesn't open
they see a door open on the other side
of the room and run for it
the ice starts cracking beneath them as
they run across the room but they all
make it
the next room is a bar with a pool table
but everything in the room is upside
down
and bolted to the ceiling which is at
least 20 feet up
mike realizes that the eighth ball is
the only ball missing from the pool
table
a phone attached to the pool table
starts to ring and the receiver drops
down far enough for them to answer it
the voice tells them to watch their
steps and a piece of the floor
falls away to reveal a 15-story drop
under the room
everyone grabs onto the walls amanda
climbs up behind the bar
where she finds a safe that requires a
four-digit code
zoe sees a sliding puzzle on the wall
and climbs to it
to start solving it while another part
of the floor falls
jason climbs onto a platform next to the
exit door which is missing the handle
ben and mike climb onto the sliding
puzzle frame with zoe
while more of the floor falls away zoe
solves the puzzle
and they realize the colors in the
puzzle correspond to certain billiard
balls
they give amanda the code to open the
safe and get the eight ball
which will function as the door handle
the sliding puzzle frame starts to come
away from the wall
due to their combined weight zoe falls
onto a section of the floor below the
puzzle and is dazed by the impact
she flashes back to the inside of a
crashed airplane which is upside down
she is looking up at her mom's dead body
strapped into the seat
jason jumps down and helps zoe onto the
platform
and climbs up just before that section
of the floor falls
ben and mike climb onto the platform
with them amanda puts the eight ball in
her pocket
and jumps from the bar to the pool table
where she has to use her arms to pull
herself along the edge
until she can get her legs up the ball
falls out of her pocket onto the last
remaining section of floor
and starts to roll towards the edge
amanda jumps down
grabs the ball and throws it to jason
just before the floor falls
she grabs the hanging phone cord and ben
tries to reach her with a pool cue
but the cord snaps and she falls to her
death
zoe is devastated and ben tries to
comfort her
while jason pushes ahead into the next
room the fourth room is filled with six
hospital cubicles
zoe ben mike and jason each recognize
the cubicles
as replicas of the hospital rooms they
were in after their accidents
zoe was the sole survivor of a plane
crash in vietnam that killed her mom
mike was the sole survivor of a mine
cave in in west virginia that killed his
brother
ben was the sole survivor of a drunk
driving accident that killed all his
friends and jason was the sole survivor
of a boat overturning in icy water
jason says that he and his friend took
turns sharing a red jacket
until his friend decided to swim for
help on the second day
jason remained with the boat and was
rescued on the third day
but his friend was never found the group
finds files on amanda and danny
that tells them amanda was the sole
survivor of an ied blast
in iraq and dany was the sole survivor
of a carbon monoxide leak
that killed his family they realize the
designer knows everything about them
zoe realizes they were chosen because
they are all soul survivors
and whoever designed the escape rooms
wanted to see which of them would
ultimately survive
a tv turns on and starts a five-minute
countdown
the video shows an open-heart surgery
and says they need to put their hearts
into it
zoe says they should stop playing along
with the game since the designer clearly
wants there to be one sole survivor in
the end
she starts destroying all the cameras in
the room jason
mike and ben realize that the x-rays
they found spell e
k and g in sign language jason finds the
ekg machine and notices canisters of
poison
that will be released into the room once
the countdown is up
jason thinks they need to use the ekg
machine to measure a very high heart
rate
ben's heart rate isn't high enough so
jason attaches the machine to mike
while ben tries to get zoe to calm down
and work with them
jason convinces mike that his heart rate
needs to be higher and they need to use
a defibrillator on his heart jason
shocks mike twice with the paddles until
his heart rate is over 200.
mike flatlines and ben perform cpr to
try to revive him but is unsuccessful
jason realizes the ekg also needs to
measure a low heart rate before the door
will open
the countdown ends and poisonous gas
starts to fill the room
jason attaches the machine to himself
and calms himself until his heart rate
drops below 50 and the door opens
ben begs zoe to follow him and jason out
of the room
but she refuses because she is still
breaking cameras and is convinced that
is the solution
jason and ben leave and zoe smashes the
last camera
zoe collapses on the floor and starts
foaming through her mouth
jason and ben enter the fifth room which
is completely covered in a black and
white checkered pattern over the walls
floor ceiling and furniture ben yells at
jason for killing mike and realizes that
jason was the one to kill his friend on
the boat so he wouldn't have to share
the jacket
jason flashes back to fighting his
friend on the boat drowning him
and letting his body drift away so jason
could use the jacket and survive
jason tells ben that he can't take the
moral high ground
because he's responsible for his friends
dying in the car crash
jason says that survival is the only
thing that matters
ben angrily walks away and finds a hatch
in the floor
it's too heavy to open alone and they
have to work together to open it
they get the hatch open and notice a
substance on their hands from the handle
they start hallucinating and see a
message under the hatch
that tells them the antidote is in the
room ben finds the antidote but there is
only one dose
jason attacks him to get the antidote
and they fight as the floor rotates
until ben kicks jason's head into a
table corner and he dies
ben uses the antidote on himself drops
down into the hatch
and kicks through a grate in the floor
this brings us to the room at the
beginning of the movie
ben is close to being crushed between
the walls until he manages to squeeze
sideways into the fireplace
the walls smash together and the mantle
of the fireplace breaks open
for ben to exit the room ben enters a
large room filled with computers and a
screen
showing the six contestants each with
their faces crossed out except for his
the game master greets him and explains
that the game was designed to entertain
a selected group of rich and powerful
people
past games have included college
athletes and savants and the people in
charge wanted to test soul survivors
two workers in hazmat suits enter the
hospital escape room
where they are ordered to clear out mike
and zoe's bodies
they notice a breathing tube hanging
from the ceiling zoe attacks them from
behind with an iron stand
knocks them out steals a gun and exits
the room
ben asks the game master if he can leave
since he won the game and the game
master says yes
then starts to strangle him with a wire
ben
pulls the stick out of his wounded leg
and stabs the game master
the game master climbs on top of ben to
finish choking him
but looks up and notices a computer
saying system override
while the screen showing the six
original contestants changes to list the
game master
ben and zoe as being in play zoe shoots
the game master but doesn't kill him as
he runs behind some crates
while zoe is distracted trying to wake
ben up the game master attacks her
and manages to get control of the gun
before he can shoot her
ben smashes him in the head with a glass
container and kills him with the gun
the screen changes to show the game
master's face crossed out and zoey and
then listed as winners
zoe and ben exit the building and go to
the hospital for ben's injuries
the police pick up zoe from the hospital
to go to the minnows building
when the police enter the building it
appears to be abandoned and falling
apart
they tell zoe they haven't found any
evidence of anything
she claims went on in the building zoe
tells them to ask ben to corroborate her
story
but they tell her that ben's blood work
showed multiple drugs in his system
zoe sees the words no way out spray
painted on the wall and realizes that
it is an anagram for dr wooten yoo whose
name appeared multiple times in
different escape rooms
the police don't believe her story and
tell her they need to leave the premises
six months later zoe and ben meet up at
a cafe
ben's life has improved and he's working
as a salesperson for vegan dog food
zoe shows ben a binder of information
she's been compiling about minnows
there are articles about the deaths of
amanda mike
jason and danny that cover up their true
place and cause of death
using the minnows logo zoe has also
discovered the coordinates of the
minnows headquarters in new york city
and ben agrees to join her when she
flies there in two weeks to try to bring
them down
the film cuts to a plane in distress
with one of the engines on fire
the flight attendants are frantically
searching for clues to help them get
into the cockpit
they get inside the cockpit but are too
late to make the plane pull up
before it crashes into the ground the
camera cuts away
to show that the plane is actually
suspended inside a warehouse
and the flight attendants and passengers
are employees of minnows
testing out an escape room scenario a
figure in shadows appears on a screen
and asks an employee what the chances of
survival is
he's told it's only four percent the
figure tells the employee that
he wants it to be more survivable since
it's no fun if the participants don't
have a chance
he reveals that he has ben and zoe's
flight itinerary and the scenario needs
to be ready for their flight
oh